Hello welcome back to the challenge to solution for a Section 20.
So I'm in the Section 20 workspace and am and the challenge underscored to underscore solution project.
And when I'd like to do is just go over my solution this is a really really straightforward program.
If you're not used to thinking abstractly with as T.L. containers and iterators and so forth then it
becomes much more difficult once you really take advantage of using the power of the ACL and makes it
much much easier.
So here's what I've got going on here.
I've got my song class which we've already talked about and it's very straightforward I talked about
them in the previous video and I'm going to scroll down to the methods that we're going to implement.
So here is the display menu which I gave you and here's that very first method you had to implement.
Play the current song.
So I'm being passed in a song object.
What do I do.
I just say playing and I display the song Simple as that the song class overloads my stream insertion
operator.
So it becomes basically a one liner the next one is displaying the actual playlist.
And again really straightforward What am I getting.
I'm getting the playlist which is a list of song objects and I'm also getting the current song is I
want to display both of them that we I have all the information I need in the display.
All I'm doing is arrange base for loop over the playlist.
I'm grabbing the song that's there and display it just like we did here.
So we're using the overloaded insertion operator.
That's going to display all the songs in the playlist in the loop.
And then I'm just going to say the current song that's playing is current song.
This code is the same as this code I could have called this function from there.
Either way is fine.
And now let's look at the main That's the real workhorse.
You can see that I am defining playlist right here and is of course his main initialized to these six
songs you could choose any songs you like.
This right here is so important.
If you forget to do this you can run into issues that's why I gave you that one line and decode current
song is an iterator to a song in a good list and I'm setting it to the beginning so in other words I'm
always starting right at that first song up there and then I'm displaying the playlist What am I passing
in and passing in the playlist and I'm passing in the song Remember current song as an iterator so I
need to dereference that iterator to get to the song that it's pointing to him to be double safe and
to use defensive programming you always want to make sure that that is actually pointing to the list
and not off the list.
But in this case I'm sure I'm not off the list anywhere in this program so I'm not doing it.
But defensive programming probably will be a good idea to check to make sure that iterator is not pointing
off the list.
OK so now we're in the loop and we've got a character variable that's where I'm going to read the user
selection into displaying the menu.
I'm reading this selection I'm making the selection uppercase.
That way I don't have to use or is here in my IF statements and if the selection is f that means we're
playing the first song I'm just displaying this little message right here.
Just playing for a song and I'm setting the iterator current song equals play list not begin.
That's the first element in the list.
The first song.
That's it.
And I'm calling play current song and I'm dereferencing that iterator passing the song in that'll display
that that song is playing and these little messages here I've got one here and I've got one here you
don't really don't need those but I just put them in that we you know explicitly see these functions
working.
So let's look at next.
I'll scroll up just a bit.
So here we're going to play the next song.
What do I do.
Increment the iterator.
Now it's possible that I was on the last song and now I'm off the list.
So I really need to be I need to check here.
So if the current song is equal to playlists and that means I'm off the list right.
I just press next.
And I was on the last song.
So what I need to do here is rap to the start of the play list and then set my iterator to the beginning
and then we price press conference on if I'm not at the end that I was somewhere at the beginning or
in the middle it's not a big deal.
That's it.
That's the logic right here.
For previous It's very similar.
So I'm displaying playing previous song and I'm checking to see if the current song is equal to the
first song.
Then I need to wrap around.
Right.
So in this case I need to set the current song to the end.
I notice what happens here.
Remember here's my list and this is the end of the list right.
This is just a placeholder there's no song in there.
So I want to set it to there because in the next line I want to decremented and bring it right back
to here.
So that way I don't have to duplicate code all over the place.
So that's it a decrement the song and I call play current song with the song and now it's going to be
playing the last song if I was at the beginning of the list.
Otherwise it's just going to play the previous one the edition right here we're adding songs.
I've got some variables I've got my name my artists which are strings in the rating I've got this line
of code were provided in your description.
This is clears out anything that's in standard in or C in case you've got garbage characters in there
are extra returns from processing this is just a good practice to get into whenever you really need
to just clear out stuff.
I don't want anything in there so I'm just clearing everything out and then I'm adding and playing a
new song I'm displaying that message and I'm asking the user to enter the name of the song The Artist
and the rating.
And once I have that I'm creating a new song based on that information and I'm inserting using playlists
insert and current song rember that's my iterator so inserting it before that.
That's the behavior I could use in place here as well.
Whatever you like.
Now what happened was remember he was my iterator which was current song it's pointing here and I just
inserted that song here so I need to detriment that operator to play it.
So right here is where I'm doing that on the decrementing the iterator right here and I'm playing the
song just inserted.
All right now the last couple is just real simple here list.
I'm just calling display playlists and I'm passing in the playlist in the current song.
Q I'm kidding.
Anything else is only legal choice.
That's it you can see it's really straightforward right.
I've got no looping variables I'm not worried about keeping track of stuff.
The only thing I'm keeping track of is I've got my list here and all I'm doing is I've got that current
song that's the only thing that really concerns me.
I've got that current song iterator and all I'm doing is moving that guy back and forth along the list.
Really really simple.
It never invalidates because when I'm inserting something I'm inserting something before it.
So all I need to do is just move it back.
So I'm never going to invalidate that.
And the way that the code is written it's never going to go off the list so that's why I'm not checking
to make sure it's gone.
It's in the list but I certainly could.
All right I hope you had fun with this.
I hope you've extended it as well.
If you have your solution you think it's really cool.
Posted in the Q&A and we'll comment on it.
All right I'll see you in the next video.
Well we're going to start talking about sets.